# Database Backup Script

This script is designed to perform backups of a PostgreSQL database. It utilizes `pg_dump` to create a physical backup of the specified database.

## Setup

### 1. Configure PostgreSQL Connection Parameters

Before using the script, make sure to update the following variables in the script with your PostgreSQL connection details:

- `DB_HOST`: The hostname or IP address of your PostgreSQL database server.
- `DB_PORT`: The port on which your PostgreSQL database server is running.
- `DB_NAME`: The name of the database you want to back up.
- `DB_USER`: The username used to connect to the database.
- `DB_PASSWORD`: The password used to connect to the database.

### 2. Specify Backup Directory

Set the `BACKUP_DIR` variable to the path where you want to store the backup files.

### 3. Define Date Format

The `DATE_FORMAT` variable determines the format of the timestamp appended to the backup directory name. By default, it uses the format `YYYYMMDDHHMMSS`.

### 4. Configure Log Directory

Set the `LOG_DIR` variable to the directory where you want to store log files. The script will create log files in this directory to track backup operations.

## Usage

### Running the Backup Script

Execute the script using Bash:

```bash
./backup_script.sh
```
The script will connect to the specified PostgreSQL database and create a backup in the designated directory. Log messages will be written to the specified log file.

## Automating Backups with CronTab

To schedule regular backups using CronTab, follow these steps:

### 1. Open your terminal and type:

```bash
crontab -e
```

### 2. Add a new line to the CronTab file with the following format:

Example: Run the backup script every day at 1:00 AM

```bash
0 1 * * * /path/to/backup_script.sh
```


Replace `/path/to/backup_script.sh` with the actual path to your backup script.

### 3. Save and exit the CronTab file. Cron will now execute the backup script at the specified interval.

## Notes

- Ensure that the PostgreSQL client tools, particularly `pg_dump`, are installed and accessible from the system environment where the script will run.
- It's recommended to periodically review the log files generated by the script to ensure backups are running smoothly.

---
For more information, please refer to the [PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/).
